how-to, toc: add TiDB in K8s troubleshooting (#1357)
pingcap/docs: dev/how-to/troubleshoot/tidb-in-kubernetes.md

    ```

4. After finishing the diagnosis and resolving the problem, delete the Pod.

    ```shell
    kubectl delete pod ${pod_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

    After the Pod is rebuilt, it automatically returns to the normal mode.

## Recover the cluster after accidental deletion

TiDB Operator uses PV (Persistent Volume) and PVC (Persistent Volume Claim) to store persistent data. If you accidentally delete the cluster using `helm delete`, the PV/PVC objects and data are still retained to ensure data security.

To restore the cluster at this time, use the `helm install` command to create a cluster with the same name. The retained PV/PVC and data are reused.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
helm install pingcap/tidb-cluster -n ${releaseName} --namespace=${namespace} --version=v1.0.0-beta.3 -f values.yaml
```

## Pod is not created normally

After creating a cluster using `helm install`, if the Pod is not created, you can diagnose it using the following commands:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get tidbclusters -n ${namespace}
kubectl get statefulsets -n ${namespace}
kubectl describe statefulsets -n ${namespace} ${cluster-name}-pd
```

> ## The network connection issue between Pods

Reviewer: Connection issue maybe a little wider, and "the" is not necessary here.

> ## The network connection issue between Pods

Author: Agree with you 😀

> In a TiDB cluster, you can access most Pods by using the Pod's domain name (allocated by the Headless Service). The exception is when TiDB Operator collects the cluster information or issues the control command, it accesses the PD (Placement Driver) cluster using the `ServiceName` of the PD service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a TiDB cluster, you can access most Pods by using the Pod's domain name (allocated by the Headless Service). The exception is when TiDB Operator collects the cluster information or issues control commands, it accesses the PD (Placement Driver) cluster using the `ServiceName` of the PD service.
```

> When you find some network connection issue exists between Pods from the log or monitoring metrics, or you find the network connection between Pods might be abnormal according to the problem condition, you can follow the following process to diagnose and gradually narrow down the problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you find some network connection issues between Pods from the log or monitoring metrics, or you find the network connection between Pods might be abnormal according to the problematic condition, you can follow the following process to diagnose and narrow down the problem:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl -n ${namespace} get endpoints ${cluster_name}-pd
    kubectl -n ${namespace} get endpoints ${cluster_name}-tidb
    kubectl -n ${namespace} get endpoints ${cluster_name}-pd-peer
    kubectl -n ${namespace} get endpoints ${cluster_name}-tikv-peer
    kubectl -n ${namespace} get endpoints ${cluster_name}-tidb-peer
    ```

    The `ENDPOINTS` field shown in the above command should be a comma-separated list of `cluster_ip:port`. If the field is empty or incorrect, check the health of the Pod and whether `kube-controller-manager` is working properly.

2. Enter the Pod's Network Namespace to diagnose network problems:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tkctl debug -n ${namespace} ${pod_name}
    ```

    After the remote shell is started, use the `dig` command to diagnose the DNS resolution. If the DNS resolution is abnormal, refer to [Debugging DNS Resolution](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-debugging-resolution/) for troubleshooting.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    dig ${HOSTNAME}
    ```

>     Use the `ping` command to diagnose whether the three layers of network to the destination IP are connected (the destination IP is the ClusterIP resolved using `dig`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use the `ping` command to diagnose the connection with the destination IP (the ClusterIP resolved using `dig`):
```

Reviewer: Ping command sends ICMP packets which should belong to the layer 3 network, but I don't think we need to mention it.

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        telnet ${TARGET_IP} ${TARGET_PORT}
        ```

        If the `telnet` check fails, check whether the port corresponding to the Pod is correctly exposed and whether the applied port is correctly configured:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        # Checks whether the ports are consistent.
        kubectl -n ${namespace} get po ${pod_name} -ojson | jq '.spec.containers[].ports[].containerPort'

        # Checks whether the application is correctly configured to serve the specified port.
        # The default port of PD is 2379 when not configured.
        kubectl -n ${namespace} -it exec ${pod_name} -- cat /etc/pd/pd.toml | grep client-urls
        # The default port of PD is 20160 when not configured.
        kubectl -n ${namespace} -it exec ${pod_name} -- cat /etc/tikv/tikv.toml | grep addr
        # The default port of TiDB is 4000 when not configured.
        kubectl -n ${namespace} -it exec ${pod_name} -- cat /etc/tidb/tidb.toml | grep port
        ```

## The Pod is in the Pending state

> The Pending state of a Pod is usually caused by insufficient resources, such as the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pending state of a Pod is usually caused by conditions of insufficient resources, such as:
```

- The `StorageClass` of the PVC used by PD, TiKV, Monitor Pod does not exist or the PV is insufficient.
- No nodes in the Kubernetes cluster can satisfy the CPU or memory applied by the Pod

You can check the specific reason for Pending by using the `kubectl describe pod` command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl describe po -n ${namespace} ${pod_name}
```

> - If the CPU or memory resources are insufficient, you can lower the CPU or memory resources applied by the corresponding component, or add a new Kubernetes node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the CPU or memory resources are insufficient, you can lower the CPU or memory resources requested by the corresponding component for scheduling, or add a new Kubernetes node.
```

- If the `StorageClass` of the PVC cannot be found, delete the TiDB Pod and the corresponding PVC. Then, in the `values.yaml` file, change `StorageClassName` to the name of the `StorageClass` available in the cluster. Run the following command to get the `StorageClass` available in the cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl get storageclass
    ```

> - If a `StorageClass` exists in the cluster but the available PV is insufficient, you need to add the corresponding PV resources. For Local PV, you can expand it by referring to [Local PV Configuration](/reference/configuration/tidb-in-kubernetes/local-pv-configuration.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a `StorageClass` exists in the cluster but the available PV is insufficient, you need to add PV resources correspondingly. For Local PV, you can expand it by referring to [Local PV Configuration](/reference/configuration/tidb-in-kubernetes/local-pv-configuration.md).
```

Reviewer: Cannot find the reference object in the context by saying "the corresponding PV resources".
But we can use the adv for the verb "add".

## The Pod is in the `CrashLoopBackOff` state

> A Pod in the `CrashLoopBackOff` state means that the container in the Pod repeatedly exits abnormally. After one abnormal exit, the container is restarted by kubelet, and then it exits abnormally again after the restart. Many reasons can cause `CrashLoopBackOff`. In this case, the most effective way to locate it is to view the log of the Pod container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pod in the `CrashLoopBackOff` state means that the container in the Pod repeatedly aborts, in the loop of abort - restart by `kubelet1 - abort. There are many potential causes of `CrashLoopBackOff`. In this case, the most effective way to locate it is to view the log of the Pod container:
```

Author: You must mean `kubelet` by "`kubelet1".

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl -n ${namespace} logs -f ${pod_name}
```

If the log fails to help diagnose the problem, you can add the `-p` parameter to output the log information when the container was last started:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl -n ${namespace} logs -p ${pod_name}
```

After checking the error messages in the log, you can refer to [Cannot start `tidb-server`](/how-to/troubleshoot/cluster-setup.md#cannot-start-tidb-server), [Cannot start `tikv-server`](/how-to/troubleshoot/cluster-setup.md#cannot-start-tikv-server), and [Cannot start `pd-server`](/how-to/troubleshoot/cluster-setup.md#cannot-start-pd-server) for further troubleshooting.

In addition, TiKV might also fail to start when `ulimit` is insufficient. In this case, you can modify the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file of the Kubernetes node to increase the `ulimit`:

```
root soft nofile 1000000
root hard nofile 1000000
root soft core unlimited
root soft stack 10240
```

> If you cannot confirm the cause from the log and `ulimit` is also a normal value, troubleshoot it by using [the diagnostic mode](#use-the-diagnostic-mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you cannot confirm the cause from the log and `ulimit` is also a normal value, troubleshoot it further by using [the diagnostic mode](#use-the-diagnostic-mode).
```

## Unable to access the TiDB service

> If you cannot access the TiDB service, first check whether the TiDB service is deployed successfully using the following approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you cannot access the TiDB service, first check whether the TiDB service is deployed successfully using the following method:
```
